HiComMedArc
#Hawaii Community media archive and search engine

We are seeking support to begin a community-driven process of locating, summarizing and annotating a vast trove of media related to political activism in Hawaii, and create an online search engine that records the research. Content includes thousands of hours of video footage from performances, protests, interventions, and events, as well as photography, imagery, artwork, and audio. Local institutions and publishers have provided a venue for some work but the vast majority is managed by volunteer documentarians and archivists, and distributed and organized in undocumented, idiosyncratic and informal ways. Based on earlier HCH feedback we have addressed copyright concerns by shifting the preservation work to a mode that is not dependent on the delivery of the media itself.

The project has two possible phases, with the first standing independently if the second does not prove feasible.

## Phase one: Hawaiʿi Community Media Search

A search engine for this culturally and historically important content. We need funding for some computing resources, community training/publicity events, and writing a manual for current and future participants. This search engine will stimulate awareness of preservation needs, and introduce community-driven strategies for sharing and distribution. The collaborative development of the search engine will prefigure the future implementation of a media sharing infrastructure.

Depending on implementation (see [DesignDoc.md](DesignDoc.md)) we may be able to implement virtual exhibitions curated by members, who will be able to set the public visibility, and by invited experts such as scholars, videographers, activists, and artists in visual and audio media. see [DesignDoc.md](DesignDoc.md).
## Phase two
We are seeking support to begin the process of storing and sharing a vast trove of media related to political activism in Hawaiʿi. This includes thousands of hours of video footage from performances, protests, interventions, and events, as well as photography, imagery, artwork, and audio. This will provide the ingredients for a “people’s history” -- or more exactly, many “people’s histories,” made by the people -- of recent Hawaiʿi. Local institutions and publishers have provided a venue for some work but the vast majority is scattered and without a permanent home. We will create a decentralized, collaborative, community-sustainable public archive of this culturally and historically important content. 

We have explored the possibility of archiving large amounts of data at UH but have run into cost and implementation problems at every step. Our goal is to set the server up in a way that creates community stakeholders so that if UH is unable to sustain its support, the project will continue on an independent footing. The way to do this is via what is a called a federated server, where overlapping pieces of the archive are stored on many different computers in a redundant fashion so that if any percentage of the servers fails or goes offline the data will remain available from the other computers on the network.  

Access to the media in the archive will be open to all for metadata searching (title, location, date, keywords, videographer, etc) and snippets, with full versions available via a free membership, with extra privileges/benefits such as higher resolutions, available to those who provide disk space for storage. The people who upload videos will determine the licensing. We will provide guidance for Creative Commons licenses. The copyright will remain with the creator. Uploads will be vetted for copyright compliance before being released, and a copyright takedown process will be in place that recognizes the rights of both the video creators for fair use and copyright holders with contesting claims.
